toolkit/components/ml/docs/index.rst, before:

Machine Learning
================

This component is an experimental machine learning local inference engine based on
Transformers.js and the ONNX runtime.

You can use the Transformer.js `pipeline` API directly to perform inference, as long
as the model is in our model hub.

In the example below, a text summarization task is performed using the `summarization` task:

.. code-block:: javascript

  const {PipelineOptions, EngineProcess } = ChromeUtils.importESModule("chrome://global/content/ml/EngineProcess.sys.mjs");
  const options = new PipelineOptions(
    {
    taskName: "summarization",
    modelId: "mozilla/text_summarization",
    modelRevision: "main"
    }
  );

  const engineParent = await EngineProcess.getMLEngineParent();
  const engine = engineParent.getEngine(options);

  const text = 'The tower is 324 metres (1,063 ft) tall, about the same height as an 81-storey building, ' +
  'and the tallest structure in Paris. Its base is square, measuring 125 metres (410 ft) on each side. ' +
  'During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to become the tallest ' +
  'man-made structure in the world, a title it held for 41 years until the Chrysler Building in New ' +
  'York City was finished in 1930. It was the first structure to reach a height of 300 metres. Due to ' +
  'the addition of a broadcasting aerial at the top of the tower in 1957, it is now taller than the ' +
  'Chrysler Building by 5.2 metres (17 ft). Excluding transmitters, the Eiffel Tower is the second ' +
  'tallest free-standing structure in France after the Millau Viaduct.';

  const request = { args:  [text], options: { max_length: 100 } };
  const res = await engine.run(request);
  console.log(res[0]["summary_text"]);


In the example below, an image is converted to text using the `image-to-text` task.


.. code-block:: javascript

  const {PipelineOptions, EngineProcess } = ChromeUtils.importESModule("chrome://global/content/ml/EngineProcess.sys.mjs");

  // First we create a pipeline options object, which contains the task name
  // and any other options needed for the task
  const options = new PipelineOptions({taskName: "moz-image-to-text" });

  // Next, we create an engine parent object via EngineProcess
  const engineParent = await EngineProcess.getMLEngineParent();

  // We then create the engine object, using the options
  const engine = engineParent.getEngine(options);

  // Preparing a request
  const request = {url: "https://huggingface.co/datasets/mishig/sample_images/resolve/main/football-match.jpg"};

  // At this point we are ready to do some inference.
  const res = await engine.run(request);

  // The result is a string containing the text extracted from the image
  console.log(res);


Supported Inference Tasks
:::::::::::::::::::::::::

The following tasks are supported by the machine learning engine:

.. js:autofunction:: imageToText

Commit message:

Bug 1902999 - added MOZ_ALLOW_EXTERNAL_HUB - r=Mardak
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D213939

toolkit/components/ml/docs/index.rst, after:

Machine Learning
================

This component is an experimental machine learning local inference engine based on
Transformers.js and the ONNX runtime.


Running the pipeline API
::::::::::::::::::::::::

You can use the Transformer.js `pipeline` API directly to perform inference, as long
as the model is in our model hub.

In the example below, a text summarization task is performed using the `summarization` task:

.. code-block:: javascript

  const {PipelineOptions, EngineProcess } = ChromeUtils.importESModule("chrome://global/content/ml/EngineProcess.sys.mjs");
  const options = new PipelineOptions(
    {
    taskName: "summarization",
    modelId: "mozilla/text_summarization",
    modelRevision: "main"
    }
  );

  const engineParent = await EngineProcess.getMLEngineParent();
  const engine = engineParent.getEngine(options);

  const text = 'The tower is 324 metres (1,063 ft) tall, about the same height as an 81-storey building, ' +
  'and the tallest structure in Paris. Its base is square, measuring 125 metres (410 ft) on each side. ' +
  'During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to become the tallest ' +
  'man-made structure in the world, a title it held for 41 years until the Chrysler Building in New ' +
  'York City was finished in 1930. It was the first structure to reach a height of 300 metres. Due to ' +
  'the addition of a broadcasting aerial at the top of the tower in 1957, it is now taller than the ' +
  'Chrysler Building by 5.2 metres (17 ft). Excluding transmitters, the Eiffel Tower is the second ' +
  'tallest free-standing structure in France after the Millau Viaduct.';

  const request = { args:  [text], options: { max_length: 100 } };
  const res = await engine.run(request);
  console.log(res[0]["summary_text"]);


Using the Hugging Face model hub
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

By default, the engine will use the Mozilla model hub and will error out if you try to use any other hub for security reasons.

If you want to use the Hugging Face model hub, you will need to run Firefox with the `MOZ_ALLOW_EXTERNAL_ML_HUB` environment variable
set to `1`, then set in `about:config` these two values:

- `browser.ml.modelHubRootUrl` to `https://huggingface.co`
- `browser.ml.modelHubUrlTemplate` to `{model}/resolve/{revision}`


Running the internal APIs
:::::::::::::::::::::::::

Some inference tasks are doing more complex operations within the engine, such as image processing.
For these tasks, you can use the internal APIs to run the inference.

In the example below, an image is converted to text using the `image-to-text` task.


.. code-block:: javascript

  const {PipelineOptions, EngineProcess } = ChromeUtils.importESModule("chrome://global/content/ml/EngineProcess.sys.mjs");

  // First we create a pipeline options object, which contains the task name
  // and any other options needed for the task
  const options = new PipelineOptions({taskName: "moz-image-to-text" });

  // Next, we create an engine parent object via EngineProcess
  const engineParent = await EngineProcess.getMLEngineParent();

  // We then create the engine object, using the options
  const engine = engineParent.getEngine(options);

  // Preparing a request
  const request = {url: "https://huggingface.co/datasets/mishig/sample_images/resolve/main/football-match.jpg"};

  // At this point we are ready to do some inference.
  const res = await engine.run(request);

  // The result is a string containing the text extracted from the image
  console.log(res);


The following tasks are supported by the machine learning engine:

.. js:autofunction:: imageToText
