# A3
Bug 1510966 - “Code Style Warning: Unneccessary code”: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1510966  

## Diagnosis
The problem this bug is highlighting are some of the many code style warnings that arise during compilation. This bug is specific to Firefox for Android, and the files from which the warnings are coming from have been highlighted in the bug page. The warnings this particular bug is tackling are: 
* Unnecessary enum modifier 
* Unneccessary interface modifier 
* Unnecessary semicolon 

##### Unnecessary enum Modifier: 
The Unnecessary enum modifier warning is raised for: 
* Enums with a static modifier because enum is implied to be static 
* Private modifiers within the enum because the modifier is implicitly private 

Reference: 
* [Link 1](http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/config_modifier.html#RedundantModifier)
* [Link 2](https://rules.sonarsource.com/java/RSPEC-2786)
* [Link 3](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle/issues/1242)

##### Unnecessary Interface Modifier: 
The Unnecessary interface modifier warning is raised when: 
* Interface methods have a public or abstract modifier since interface methods are always public and abstract 
* Interface fields have a public, static, or final modifier since interface fields are always public, static, and final 

Reference: 
* [Link 1](http://www.technology.heartland.edu/courses/Computer%20Science/Programming/Java%20Courses/JTest%20User%27s%20Guide/ucaai.htm)

##### Unnecessary Semicolons: 
Unnecessary semicolons occur: 
* Between class members 
* Inside block statements 
* After class definitions 

This bug is important to fix because minor warnings like unnecessary modifiers may hide other new or more important warnings that occur during development. By resolving these existing code warnings it will be easier to catch new warnings.  
The possible risks involved with fixing this bug could be that these warnings have been ignored for a reason. This hypothetical reason could be much more complex and difficult to resolve which is why the warnings have been left in place. The other reason these warnings may have been ignored is because it makes the code more readable. Although the modifiers are unnecessary, providing them may be more explicitly clear for developers reading the code.

## Solution
The solution seems straight forward, for each of the warnings and files mentioned in the bug, remove the unnecessary modifiers causing the warnings. This would involve searching the file for the cause of the warnings and doing a line-by-line inspection. 
1. Pick a warning
2. Open a File mentioned in the bug affected by this warning
3. Search file for cause of warnings
4. Resolve warnings by removing unnecesary code
5. Repeat for next file/warning

## Testing
This bug is resolved when the unnecessary code warnings are resolved and the code passes all tests. 
Start by saving the code style warnings that are produced when compiling the project.
After making fixes to the files to resolve the code style warnings, confirm the warnings are resolved by re-compiling the project. 
Inspect the new warnings to ensure the ones you fixed are resolved.
When all the warnings have been resolved, run a test to ensure the code is working as it should 

#### Notes
I was assigned to the bug
